update 103 (#151)
tari-project/tari-dot-com: _updates/2023-03-15-update-103.md

---
layout: update
tag: Developer Update
date: 2023-03-15
author: swvheerden
thumbnail: update-background.jpg
title: This week in Tari    
class: subpage
---

## Version changes

> To help us better reflect on the changes and networks, we have changed how we represent the networks. Versions with a suffix of `rc` is nextnet, and versions with a suffix of `pre` is testnet, this is still currently Esmeralda. Since the last blog post about [networks](2023-02-17-update-100.md), we have written a detailed guide to what each number means and this can be read on the [github repository](https://github.com/tari-project/tari/blob/development/docs/src/branching_releases.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have introduced a few changes to how we version code releases to make it easier to identify which codebases are running on which Tari network.  

* Versions with a suffix of `rc` are running on nextnet, 
* Versions with a suffix of `pre` are running on testnet (this is still currently Esmeralda). 

We covered the reasoning in a recent [developer update](2023-02-17-update-100.md), and subsequent to that, we wrote a [detailed guide](https://github.com/tari-project/tari/blob/development/docs/src/branching_releases.md) on the versioning.
```

## Testnet chain reset

> With all of the breaking changes that where done recently it was decided to reset the Esmeralda testnet chain back to 0 again. 

Reviewer: ~~Include date/time of the reset please~~ See it below

## Balanced Merkle Trees

For the Dan layer, we have changed over from using Merkle Mountain Ranges to just using Balanced Merkle Trees as this should provide much better performance in terms of speed and size, see the PR [#5189](https://github.com/tari-project/tari/pull/5189) for more details and actual numbers.

## Wallet encryption

> There have been multiple updates and changes to how the wallet handles its own encryption. Most of these have been breaking changes and require the wallet to run recovery. But in the end, we are trying to ensure that using the wallet the data is properly and securely encrypted. 

Reviewer: ~~Links to some key PRs?~~ I see them below. Ok

## DAN improvements

On the Digital Assets Network layer, more PRs relating to confidential assets have been merged, and we are getting closer to MVP for confidential assets.
We have also merged a few PRs to start with claiming funds one the DAN. This will allow users to claim Tari burned on the main layer as funds to be used in the DAN layer.

And finally, here is the complete list of features and fixes we've made from version 0.46.0 to 0.50.0-pre.0 
## [0.49.0-pre.1](https://github.com/tari-project/tari/compare/v0.49.0-pre.0...v0.49.0-pre.1) (2023-03-15)

### ⚠ BREAKING CHANGES

* **wallet:** ensure burn shared keys and hashes match dan layer (#5245)
* add claim public key to OutputFeatures (#5239)

> * reset esmeralda (#5247)

Reviewer: Cool. Make the llinks clickable please
